40022711
Alexander Fourneaux
COMP 476 Assignment 1


Notes on external resources:
Daniel's demo was used as a base to sort out the basic class system in a component-oriented way.
House model and textures by Tammie Waters, who kindly provided when I asked for "a random 3D model to stick in my assignment"
Doughnut and grass textures taken from online.



R2 and R3 are separated into different scenes. R2 can be demonstrated using the Part1 scene, and R3 will be demonstrated in Part2.

Part 1 - Four players exist in the scene:
1. Arrive behaviour with an initial speed of 3 and an out-of-sight target to the left. The player stops, adjusts, and begins moving again.
2. Arrive behaviour with an in-sight target which crosses the left-right looping of the map. The player continues straight before arriving.
3. Arrive behaviour whilst inside of the step radius. The player steps towards the centre without rotating.
4. Flee behaviour whilst inside of the step radius. The player steps out of the radius, then speeds away.

Please note that I opted to use steering behaviour for this exercise rather than kinematic. I hope you agree that steering is simply more interesting.

Part 2 - Freeze Tag
The rules of the game operate to spec. The "It" character is randomly determined by a game controller, and given a properly nefarious top hat.
The "It" character has a 1.5x speed boost to enable them to actually complete the game.
If the "It" character does not have an active target, they search for the nearest one. This takes into account looping on the x axis.
The "It" character chases their quarry using Pursue behaviour, and the target is alerted to flee their pursuer. The target does not change until they are caught.
When caught, the player is frozen. They are encased in ice, and slide to a stop. The "It" player then searches for the next nearest target.
Meanwhile, other players are wandering by picking random points on the map and walking to them. When they finish their wander, they search for the nearest frozen player.
If no player is found, they pick a new point to wander to. If a player is found, they walk to that player and tag them to unfreeze them.
While a frozen player has another player approaching them to tag them, they do not appear in anyone else's search for a frozen player.
In other words, two players will not try to unfreeze the same player.
When all players are frozen, the "It" character does a victory dance for 5 seconds and returns to the centre of the field before the game begins anew with the last frozen player as "It".